introducing zap the snap the Botox
mechanism of action game in April of
2008 at the annual American Academy of
Neurology meeting in Chicago we debuted
our latest advancement in the art of 3d
medical video drops this fun and
educational experience is known as zap
the snap the Botox mechanism of action
game the gaming area occupied a full
one-third of allergens 50 by 50 foot
exhibit which housed for gaming stations
with a total of eight screens and a
networked leaderboard which kept track
of the high scores the main controller
they use there was a joystick but our
gaming technology is flexible and works
with a keyboard and mouse or gamepad if
desired in zap the snap players are
immersed into the microscopic world of
the motor and sensory neuron where Botox
works the reason that the game was such
a success is because it educates the
player about the mechanism and benefits
of Botox while remaining entertaining
and fun to play we even had some players
coming back a dozen or more times try
and top their personal best or
attempting to knock a leader from their
top spot on the board another successful
aspect of the game was accessibility to
players of all levels from an 80 year
old Italian neurologist to a 23 year old
resident from the US almost every player
who tried could play through the whole
game to gain further insight into the
mechanism of action of Botox and all
were left with memorable impressions of
the product zap the snap begins when you
click play game on the main menu screen
loading in the first of three levels
level one is called binding 30 seconds
begin to count down on the game clock as
you attempt to dock as many Botox
molecules as possible first rotating
them into the correct orientation and
then binding them to open receptors on
the surface of the neuron ten points are
awarded for each correctly docked Botox
molecule new rows of available receptors
advance as you fill them up continuing
on you watch a short cut scene movie
which further details the importance of
the proper binding of Botox as well as
the process by which it enters the
neuron after binding you see the yellow
molecule released into the cytoplasm
this is the light chain of Botox which
will do the work from here on out after
the cutscene you enter the second level
of zap the snap which takes place inside
of the motor neuron you see before you
several rows of snare complexes sitting
atop a cell scape that extends into the
background blue vesicles containing
acetylcholine have descended upon the
snare complexes located towards the
bottom of the screen you are in command
of the recently released Botox light
change as the vesicles seat themselves
on the available snare complexes
small-timer window is open under each
one your objective is to reach these
activated snare complexes to cleave the
molecule snap-25 before the time expires
on the clock if you reach it in time
snap-25 is cleaved and points are
rewarded based on how much time remains
on the clock if you fail to get there
before the clock expires no points are
rewarded and the contents of the vesicle
are released into the synapse causing
unwanted muscle contraction the cleaving
of snap-25 is the main event behind the
mechanism of action of Botox the concept
of cleaving or zapping snap-25 is one of
the main points we want the player to
take home after this experience another
key point is that Botox works in both
motor and sensory neurons so upon
completing level to the
players congratulated and inform that
they are leaving the motor and entering
the sensory room while the mechanism of
action and gameplay are similar the
environment and objective are different
in this level the multi-coloured vesicle
is descending here contain a
neuropeptide neurotransmitter which if
released triggers pain in our patient
again you are controlling the yellow
Botox light chain and are trying to
cleave snap-25 in time if the contents
of these vesicles are released the
associated pain can be seen in the
glowing red muscle tissue below as the
second row of snare complexes are dire
your fast reflexes are critical since
the time allotted to cleave snap-25 is
continuously reduced the end of level 3
marks the successful completion of the
game players congratulated and informed
whether or not they have achieved a high
score they enter their name and the top
10 high scores are instantly listed in
the zap to snap all of Fame all of the
gaming stations are networked together
to compile high scores as well as share
data collected about each of the players
of the game the main menu contains a
tutorial section the required
prescribing and safety information as
well as a setup menu for proper setup
the game across various systems and
controllers thanks and we hope you
enjoyed watching this demonstration of
zap the snap the botox mechanism of
action game